# Football-player-transfer-prices-prediction
Project “Model for predicting football player trading values from ability statistics To analyze price fluctuations in the football transfer market” has its origins in the world of football. Player trading is considered an important strategy that helps the team succeed. It is considered one of the businesses that still make the football industry exist today. Therefore, it is common for players to transfer after the season ends. There are still gaps in the player market and the pressure of market conditions on the last day of the transfer window. Therefore, there is often panic buying and selling among players based on other factors to interfere with their trading decisions. This causes unpredictable decisions and fluctuations in player prices. The organizing team has therefore seen and studied the fluctuations or gaps in player prices that have increased each year until now.

The organizing team has therefore determined the objective of the project, a model to predict the value of football player trades from ability statistics. To analyze price fluctuations in the football transfer market” by applying knowledge in data science to analyze data from various data sources related to the football transfer market, 2 parts: name information and player power values. The information was obtained through Web Scraping from the website www.sofifa.com and information regarding player transfers and trading prices. The information was obtained through data sets that were prepared by interested people through channels. www.github.com To be used for analysis under this project.
This project has analyzed the volatility of player transfer prices predicting transfer prices using player ability stats or player power values as prediction features. It uses Regression algorithms to create prediction models, namely Linear Regression, Lasso Regression, Gradient Boosting, and Random forest, and selects the most appropriate model. That model is the Gradient Boosting model with a Training Score of 0.758 and a Test Score of 0.688 in order to further analyze the prediction results through the Microsoft Power BI tool to show them in a picture that is easier to understand.

Finally, the organizing team is very determined that this project will contribute to maximum benefit for those who are interested. It is hoped that it will help you understand more about the factors related to the price of football players in the football trading market.
